xiv mmonucmon.

IV.—THE ME RGENARY WAR.

The Carthaginiens, like all the Phoenicians‚ were too
strictly a mereantile people to have any national ‘calent
for war. That they could fighb when at bay was amply
proved by the terrible siege of Carthage in 146 B.c.
Oblie1*wise,bhey preferred to hire troops to do batble for
them‚—the savage tribes of Africa, Numidiam, Moors,
Liby-Phoenicians, Gaefiulian33 the scarcely less savage
races ofSpai113 Ligurians ancl Gauls from the northern
shores of the Gulfs of Lyons and Genoa3 with Balearic
slingers, Greeks, and, in general, the outoasts and runa-
ways of all nations. The natural result> was thab hbe
Carbhaginian armies were alniosb as formidable to that„
Sbate as to their enemies. To keep such a mob of lawless
hirelings, withoub patriotism and without: principles,
under control, required nob only sternness and taor, hub a
ready supply of money wherewith to pay them, ancl good
fortune in war wherewith ’no provide them with plunder.
Herein luy the secreb of the defeat-s of Carthago. Hei·
armies had no indueemenb bui] that-1 of pay to stand by
her3 ancl hence too, when Hannibal garrisonecl Spain and
Africa in 218 B.C.‚ he inherebangecl the troops of each
eontinenfi, so that Africans were bhe guards of Spain,
and European troops sei-ved in Africa. In this way he
could be assured of bhe fideliby of caeh army3 for each
was in a manner ab the merey of the other.

At the close of the First, Punic VVar there were present
all the evils which usually induced discontenb amiel tho
mercenaries. The war had been unsuccessfuL and the
treasury was exhaustecl. They were hurss in pride and in
pocket as we113 and ‘che discontenb so roused was fanned
to insurrection hy Matho and Spendius‚ two ruffians of
exceptional villany. The efforts of 'ohe Carbhaginians to
keep the mercenaries isolassed were fruibless; and in a
few months all Africa was overrun by fiheir pillaging
bahialions. Meanwhile, Hanno and Hamilcar, whose
career of success had been fihwarbed by the ineompetence
ιη· ill-fortune of a namesake of the former, were quarrelling
for bhe -post of commancler-in-chief, and. nothing was done,

